Estefanía: Good evening, my name is Estefanía. Today we’re joined by Laura Isabel, a seventh-semester design student at the Universidad de los Andes. Good evening, Laura, how are you?

Laura: Good evening, Estefanía. I’m doing great, thank you very much for asking. How about you?

Estefanía: I’m doing great. Well, today’s interview is about secondhand clothing. As we know, the fashion industry is one of the most polluting in the world. Most of the clothes people wear end up in landfills, which can be very polluting. Often, discarded garments are still in good condition and can be reused or donated to the right people or organizations so they can be reused and help reduce the problem of pollution. With that in mind, today I’ll be asking Laura a few questions about this issue.

Laura, tell us, what do you usually do with clothes you no longer wear or decide to remove from your closet?

Laura: Well, it’s not very common for me to clear clothes out of my closet; however, when I have the chance, whether because I’m going to buy new clothes or because some items no longer fit me, I try to sort out the clothes that are in good condition and take them to a charity. As for the clothes that are in poor condition, I try to give them a second life right at home so they don’t end up as waste right away, but can be reused instead.

Estefanía: Got it. Hey, tell us how much environmental impact factors into your decision about what to do with your old clothes.

Laura: Well, I think it has a big impact, because those clothes that you might just throw away without trying to give them a second life often end up in rivers or on vacant lots where they get buried, and that affects the quality of the soil. So, for example, if it’s on a vacant lot where you could plant something, maybe for farming or something like that, with those clothes buried underground, the soil won’t be suitable for planting, and often you won’t even realize it because the clothes have been there so long that they’re buried very deep. And in rivers, it causes obvious pollution, meaning the river can’t produce the kind of drinking water we all need. Plus, aside from affecting the water cycle itself, it causes bad odors and also visually creates… how should I put it? It disrupts the scenic beauty. For example, we’re facing this problem right now in Bogotá in many water sources. Sometimes we see piles of clothes floating down the river, and that doesn’t look nice, and it shouldn’t happen, because we should try to find a new use for clothes we no longer need.

Estefanía: Got it. What do you find most difficult or frustrating about trying to donate your clothes in good condition to organizations, foundations, or people in need?

Laura: Well, I think that, on the one hand or rather, depending on the organization. There are organizations that, well, accept your clothes just fine, I mean, it’s normal; you might have to fill out a form, like making sure the clothes are clean, don’t have any objects in them, and are obviously in good condition, and they check them, and it’s all great. But there are some organizations where, for example, if your clothes don’t meet certain criteria, they won’t accept them. So it’s a little complicated because if, say, you have a blouse and they only accept men’s clothing, you’ll have to go to another charity, start doing some research, and that can sometimes make the donation process more difficult. I think that when a charity opens a warehouse or a collection center for used clothing, it should be more inclusive because not all families are the same, there are adults, there are children, there are women, there are men, people with different styles of dress, and these clothes can be reused. Especially right now, given the situation in our country, these kinds of charities are going to need a lot of clothing in different sizes, so to speak, so they can get them to the people who need them.

Estefanía: Got it. So, you mentioned that you’ve made donations before. Tell us when the last time was that you made a donation and what the process was like.

Laura: Well, the last time was a while ago, about four months ago. What was the process like? Well, I actually always look for them online, so I try to find charities that are as close to me as possible because of travel issues, but I check their requirements. With some, you have to fill out a form beforehand so you can make the donation, and they give you an appointment so you can just go and drop off the clothes, and they give you instructions on how to prepare them.

Estefanía: Okay. When you’ve wanted to donate, how do you look for or find information about the right places to do so?

Laura: Well, first of all, I generally search online, and as I find these places, I look for reviews on social media, whether on Instagram, Facebook, or TikTok, so that people who’ve donated there can share their experiences, confirming that these places accept clothes easily, so to speak, and that they’re organizations that actually use these items for social causes.

Estefanía: Got it. Um, if you could have an ideal way to connect with charities to donate your clothes, what information or features would you need them to have?

Laura: Well, I think the first thing is that they have customer service via WhatsApp, because some only offer it through their website or by phone, and at some point, it might not be easy for you to call, or the form on the website might be a little complicated, so you’ll need to get a question answered. If they have that WhatsApp support, the response might not be immediate, but at least you’ll have a more direct channel so they can give you an immediate answer, right? As soon as they’re available. For example, let’s say I message them today at 12:00 p.m., and at exactly 12:00 p.m. they’re not available and won’t be back until 2:00 p.m., I won’t get an immediate response. If I called, I’d have to call back, but I wouldn’t know their hours. Whereas on WhatsApp, as soon as they’re back, they’ll tell me, “Look, these are our hours of operation, and these are the conditions,” so you’ll have clearer information and the chance to ask questions.

Estefanía: Got it. Have you ever ended up throwing away clothes in good condition because you didn’t know where to take them at the time?

Laura: Well, I try to avoid that. If I can’t find a convenient place right away, what I can do is either ask a family member who knows someone who might need clothes and for whom those clothes would be useful, or I’ve also posted them in the group chat for the neighborhood where I live, and sometimes people say, “Oh, those would work for me,” so I just give them to that person.

Estefanía: Got it. So, to wrap things up, is there anything else related to the process of getting rid of or donating clothes that you find complicated or that we haven’t talked about yet?

Laura: Well, as for the process of getting rid of or donating clothes being complicated… what can I say? No, honestly, I don’t really have anything like that to add, aside from what I’ve already mentioned, I think that covers it all.

Estefanía: Okay, thank you so much, Laura, for participating. That was very kind of you.

Laura: Okay, Estefanía, thank you very much. Have a great day.

Estefanía: Have a great day.
